testing-ground/project-hail-mary/README.md, before:

# Project Hail Mary Monitor

Checks Biograf Spegeln for Project Hail Mary ticket availability and notifies you when something changes.

## Usage

**One-time check:**
```bash
python3 check.py
```

**Monitor mode** (compare with last state, notify on change):
```bash
python3 check.py --monitor
```

**TUI mode** (interactive Textual dashboard with Rocky ASCII art):
- `r` — manual refresh
- `+` / `-` — adjust refresh interval (5–60s)
- `m` — toggle auto/manual mode
- `q` — quit

Bash/zsh:
```bash
pip install rich textual
just tui
# or with custom refresh:
python3 check.py --tui --refresh 15
```

PowerShell (pwsh):
```powershell
python -m pip install rich textual
just tui
# or with custom refresh:
python3 check.py --tui --refresh 15
# or use the helper script (installs rich if needed):
./tui.ps1
./tui.ps1 -Refresh 15
```

## Scheduled monitoring (launchd)

The launchd plist is installed at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist`. It runs every 5 minutes.

**Start monitoring:**
```bash
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist
```

**Stop monitoring:**
```bash
launchctl unload ~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist
```

**Check status:**
```bash
launchctl list | grep project-hail-mary
```

Logs: `~/Library/Logs/project-hail-mary.log`

## Gmail notifications

When the ticket status changes (e.g. from INVÄNTAR BILJETTSLÄPP to Biljetter ute nu), the monitor sends an email in addition to the macOS notification.

**Setup:**

1. Edit `config.py` and set:
   - `GMAIL_EMAIL` – your Gmail address
   - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY` – your [Gmail App Password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833) (16-character)
   - `EMAIL_TO` – recipient (optional, defaults to GMAIL_EMAIL)
2. Test: `python3 check.py --test-email` or `just test-email`
3. Add `config.py` to `.gitignore` if it contains secrets

**Note:** launchd does not run when your Mac is sleeping. For 24/7 monitoring, keep the Mac awake or consider a cloud-based cron.

## GitHub Actions (scheduled workflow)

Runs every 30 minutes in the cloud. No local process needed.

**Setup:**

1. Ensure the workflow exists at `.github/workflows/check-tickets.yml` (in the repo root).
2. Add repository secrets: **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**
   - `GMAIL_EMAIL` – your Gmail address
   - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY` – your [Gmail App Password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833)
   - `EMAIL_TO` – recipient (optional)
3. Push. The workflow runs on schedule and on `workflow_dispatch` (manual run).

State is stored in `state.json` and committed when it changes. Private repos: ~360 min/month used (within free tier).

Commit message:

Update Project Hail Mary GitHub Actions workflow to run every 60 minutes and add test email functionality. Enhance state comparison logic and document heartbeat feature in README and new guide.

testing-ground/project-hail-mary/README.md, after:

# Project Hail Mary Monitor

Checks Biograf Spegeln for Project Hail Mary ticket availability and notifies you when something changes.

## Usage

**One-time check:**
```bash
python3 check.py
```

**Monitor mode** (compare with last state, notify on change):
```bash
python3 check.py --monitor
```

**TUI mode** (interactive Textual dashboard with Rocky ASCII art):
- `r` — manual refresh
- `+` / `-` — adjust refresh interval (5–60s)
- `m` — toggle auto/manual mode
- `q` — quit

Bash/zsh:
```bash
pip install rich textual
just tui
# or with custom refresh:
python3 check.py --tui --refresh 15
```

PowerShell (pwsh):
```powershell
python -m pip install rich textual
just tui
# or with custom refresh:
python3 check.py --tui --refresh 15
# or use the helper script (installs rich if needed):
./tui.ps1
./tui.ps1 -Refresh 15
```

## Scheduled monitoring (launchd)

The launchd plist is installed at `~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist`. It runs every 5 minutes.

**Start monitoring:**
```bash
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist
```

**Stop monitoring:**
```bash
launchctl unload ~/Library/LaunchAgents/se.biografspegeln.project-hail-mary.plist
```

**Check status:**
```bash
launchctl list | grep project-hail-mary
```

Logs: `~/Library/Logs/project-hail-mary.log`

## Gmail notifications

When the ticket status changes (e.g. from INVÄNTAR BILJETTSLÄPP to Biljetter ute nu), the monitor sends an email in addition to the macOS notification.

**Setup:**

1. Edit `config.py` and set:
   - `GMAIL_EMAIL` – your Gmail address
   - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY` – your [Gmail App Password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833) (16-character)
   - `EMAIL_TO` – recipient (optional, defaults to GMAIL_EMAIL)
2. Test: `python3 check.py --test-email` or `just test-email`
3. Add `config.py` to `.gitignore` if it contains secrets

**Note:** launchd does not run when your Mac is sleeping. For 24/7 monitoring, keep the Mac awake or consider a cloud-based cron.

## GitHub Actions (scheduled workflow)

Runs every 30 minutes in the cloud. No local process needed.

**Setup:**

1. Ensure the workflow exists at `.github/workflows/check-tickets.yml` (in the repo root).
2. Add repository secrets: **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**
   - `GMAIL_EMAIL` – your Gmail address
   - `GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEY` – your [Gmail App Password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833)
   - `EMAIL_TO` – recipient (optional)
   - `EMAIL_ON_EVERY_CHECK` – set to `true` to get an email on every run (optional; for testing)
3. Push. The workflow runs on schedule and on `workflow_dispatch` (manual run).

**Heartbeat:** Each run commits `state.json` with `last_checked_at` – check the commit history to confirm the job is running.

**Test email:** Go to **Actions** → **Run workflow** → check **Test email** to send a one-off test email.

State is stored in `state.json` and committed every run. Private repos: ~360 min/month used (within free tier).
